Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the nested case statements.
So how to nesky statements inside each other and actually have the same idea as nested ifs
as well?
So we're gonna illustrate nesting case statements using a game here the I've created.
So basically,
this game is based on the fact that if you live in the northern Hemisphere or the northern
half of the Earth,
your winter is going to be in December,
January and February.
Your spring is gonna be in March,
April and May,
and your summer is gonna be in June,
July and August on your autumn will be in September,
October or November,
right?
That's if you live in the Northern Hemisphere,
the northern half of the Earth,
like myself.
I live in Egypt,
for example.
And also,
if you live in the Southern Hemisphere or the southern half off the earth Like if you live
in Australia,
for example,
your summer is gonna be in December,
January and February.
Your autumn is gonna be in Marsh,
April and May.
Your winter is gonna be in June,
July and August,
and your spring is gonna be in September October and November,
Right?
So here I've got some form.
It is year.
The are generating a random date and a reading them value for the hemisphere either north
or self.
And we're actually gonna have a macro here that has nested case statements Where,
as you can see here,
we get two variables at the beginning Variable called month in,
which is actually gonna hold the interviewer variable the month.
So is gonna get the month from the date.
Okay.
And this value is gonna be an integer like one or two or three or four,
depending on the month.
Okay.
And it's gonna have a maximum value of 12 off course.
And that's why we don't need to make the data type is an integer because the maximum value
we're going to get is a 12 and the bite can hold up to 255 and we'll get another variable
here called hemisphere.
Its stock is a string and is gonna hold the value of the hemisphere from Selby too.
So the month and is going to get the value of the month integer from sell a two by having
the month function applied to the date and the month function would produce the integer
value off the month.
And then we're gonna have a case statement here.
So let case hemisphere,
we're gonna test the value off the variable hemisphere.
If its value is north,
We're actually gonna nest another case statement in there.
So select case,
the value of month and so are going to do another test.
We're gonna nest another test inside the test for the hemisphere,
and we're gonna basically check for the value for the integer and display the message box
that corresponds to that month in the Northern Hemisphere on.
Of course,
if the values no North,
then we're gonna check on the South,
and it's gonna be either north or South.
So it's gonna go south here and then is going to test the value of the month and and
display the message box corresponding to the season of the year and notice here how I'm in
denting my case statements years to select case hemisphere.
And then I'm inventing the case north and then inventing again Select case month and I'm
inventing the code here for the sake of readability.
It doesn't have any effect on the execution of the code.
But it's just for readability to be able to read the code to understand that this case here
,
this test is gonna be inside the first select case and then the second select cases
actually,
inside this case test okay,
Just the same idea,
as in nested ifs were inventing our code for readability.
So currently,
we've got the date third of May 2016 and the hemisphere is north,
so that should produce the springs are gonna go through the courts,
step by step here.
First of all,
we're going to select our worksheet nested case statement that we're working on.
Okay,
so just we're making sure doesn't like the correct worksheet because we've got to work
sheets in this workbook,
and then we're gonna input the value for the month into here,
and we're going to get a five because we're in May and then the hemisphere.
We're going to get a north,
and then we're gonna test the value for hemisphere case north.
Is it north?
Yes,
it is.
So we're gonna go ahead and execute the nested case statement here,
that cases statement that is nested inside the first case statement and we're gonna do our
tests for the seasons and we're going to get spring.
And then So we've got spring,
we jump straight away to the end,
select.
And this end select is actually the UN select for this select case statement.
Okay,
This is why,
as you can see her there indented to the same level,
and this indicates that this and select is for this select case and you need to put an end
select for every select case or here because we've got one select case to select.
Case says three.
So we get three select case statements we need to have three corresponding and select.
So here's an and select.
Here's an UN select that closes this one here and here is that and select,
that closes the 1st 1 for the hemisphere.
Okay,
so it's the same idea as nesting if statements,
so in select and select.
Now these formulas actually produce random values.
Whenever the workbook recall,
Caday so can actually re calculate my workbook here.
Calculate now and we get a different value for self and for the date.
So if we do the test again here,
got it just right hemisphere case North.
No,
it's not north.
They're going to go south here,
and it's gonna be in April.
So that is gonna produce autumn and in select an answer like Okay,
So I hope you got the idea for the nested case statements.
Thank you very much for watching this video guys.
And I'll see on the next one.